The EU has said there is no basis for any further Brexit talks while the UK continues to insist on making changes to Theresa May's withdrawal agreement.

EU negotiators told European diplomats changes suggested by the new UK government, such as scrapping the Irish border backstop, were unacceptable.

But Downing Street is rejecting claims it wanted talks to fail to allow a no-deal Brexit to be pushed through.

A spokesperson said they hoped the EU would rethink its refusal of changes.

They said the EU "needed to change its stance", as Mrs May's deal will not pass through Parliament in its current form.

They added: "We will throw ourselves into the negotiations with the greatest energy and the spirit of friendship and we hope the EU will rethink its current refusal to make any changes to the withdrawal agreement."

The plan negotiated between the EU and former Prime Minister Mrs May was voted down by MPs three times.

An EU negotiator said: "We are back where we were three years ago."

No-deal Brexit: What you need to know
Extra £2.1bn for no-deal Brexit planning
10 ways no-deal Brexit could affect you
New Prime Minister Boris Johnson has pledged to "do or die", and leave the EU by the deadline of 31 October, with or without a deal.

BBC Brussels reporter Adam Fleming said the meeting between the officials and diplomats was a debrief from discussions last week between the EU, UK Brexit Secretary Steve Barclay and Mr Johnson's European envoy, David Frost.

Mr Frost reiterated the prime minister's stance that the backstop element of Mrs May's plan - which aims to prevent a hard border returning between Ireland and Northern Ireland - had to be scrapped.

The backstop - agreed by Mrs May in November 2018 - would see Northern Ireland staying aligned to some rules of the EU single market.

Mr Frost said Mr Johnson's new ministers were not bound by commitments made by the previous government.

One of the EU's Brexit negotiators told the meeting that the G7 summit in France at the end of August could mark the point where a no-deal Brexit becomes inevitable.

But a diplomat at the meeting told Adam Fleming the comments simply reflected the speech Mr Johnson gave in the Commons the day after he became prime minister.